
---
layout: publication
title:  "Construction of an in vitro bistable circuit from synthetic transcriptional switches."
date:   2006-12-15 12:00:00
published: true
pmid: 17170763
---

Title: Construction of an in vitro bistable circuit from synthetic transcriptional switches.

Authors: Kim J, White KS, Winfree E

Journal: *Mol. Syst. Biol. 2006*

Abstract: Information processing using biochemical circuits is essential for survival and reproduction of natural organisms. As stripped-down analogs of genetic regulatory networks in cells, we engineered artificial transcriptional networks consisting of synthetic DNA switches, regulated by RNA signals acting as transcription repressors, and two enzymes, bacteriophage T7 RNA polymerase and Escherichia coli ribonuclease H. The synthetic switch design is modular with programmable connectivity and allows dynamic control of RNA signals through enzyme-mediated production and degradation. The switches support sharp and adjustable thresholds using a competitive hybridization mechanism, allowing arbitrary analog or digital circuits to be created in principle. As an example, we constructed an in vitro bistable memory by wiring together two synthetic switches and performed a systematic quantitative characterization. Good agreement between experimental data and a simple mathematical model was obtained for switch input/output functions, phase plane trajectories, and the bifurcation diagram for bistability. Construction of larger synthetic circuits provides a unique opportunity for evaluating model inference, prediction, and design of complex biochemical systems and could be used to control nanoscale devices and artificial cells.

PMID: 17170763

