---
layout: post
published: true
title: "Self-assembly of carbon nanotubes into two-dimensional geometries using DNA origami templates."
date: 2009-12-24 12:00:00
pmid: 19898497
authors: "Maune HT, Han SP, Barish RD, Bockrath M, Iii WA, Rothemund PW, Winfree E"
firstauthor: "Maune HT"
journalname: "Nat Nanotechnol"
journalvolume: 5
journalissue: 1
journalpages: 61-6
---

A central challenge in nanotechnology is the parallel fabrication of complex geometries for nanodevices. Here we report a general method for arranging single-walled carbon nanotubes in two dimensions using DNA origami-a technique in which a long single strand of DNA is folded into a predetermined shape. We synthesize rectangular origami templates ( approximately 75 nm x 95 nm) that display two lines of single-stranded DNA 'hooks' in a cross pattern with approximately 6 nm resolution. The perpendicular lines of hooks serve as sequence-specific binding sites for two types of nanotubes, each functionalized non-covalently with a distinct DNA linker molecule. The hook-binding domain of each linker is protected to ensure efficient hybridization. When origami templates and DNA-functionalized nanotubes are mixed, strand displacement-mediated deprotection and binding aligns the nanotubes into cross-junctions. Of several cross-junctions synthesized by this method, one demonstrated stable field-effect transistor-like behaviour. In such organizations of electronic components, DNA origami serves as a programmable nanobreadboard; thus, DNA origami may allow the rapid prototyping of complex nanotube-based structures.

